Next up we have the third context we can use spread down here at the bottom of the paragraph an object
expression to be expanded in places where zero or more key value pairs are expected.
So here's what it looks like.
It's the same.
Dot dot dot.
But we put it inside of curly braces instead of an object literal and it will copy over key value pairs
properties from other objects into a destination object.
So effectively we can make copies of objects or we can create combinations of objects we can put them
together.
So that's what we'll see in this video.
I have two existing objects one called feline one called Canine.
They just have two stupid properties their family and the number of legs for cats and furry set to true
for canines.
If I wanted to make a new object that included these properties but also more properties like a dog
Dog object will include everything from canine and I'll also set is pet to true and adorable true if
we look at dog I run the code over here we have those two properties from canine the family and furry
set to true.
So those were copied over.
We could also do the same thing for cats concept feline.
Let's go with.
What's it.
How about house cat.
That's fine.
We'll spread feline and then also add in is grumpy.
True and personality unpredictable.
At least my cats are.
And if we look at house cat over here we've got the properties coming from feline plus the properties
we set right here.
Now what can happen is sometimes you might have conflicting properties like if we added legs for two
canine as well they both have legs of four.
What happens when we merge them together.
So let's do concept cat dog equals and dot dot dot canine comma dot dot dot feline What do you think
happens.
Well in this case it's pretty simple because we know what happens in an object where we try and have
two properties with the same key.
They just overwrite each other.
So we only have one legs property.
But but what if let's say we have a three legged dog concept tripod equals and I copy and canine and
then I set legs to three.
What do you think tripod looks like.
Well it does have legs set to three even though we had legs for an canine.
The reason is that the order matters so we copy the properties from canine first and then afterwards
legs is updated to three.
So if I switch them here and then dot dot canine.
Try it again.
We'll get tripod now legs is set to four legs was three originally but then those properties were copied
in and that overrode it.
So the order does matter if you have conflicting properties with the same key name.
We can also use spread to create a clone of an object so that we don't have the exact same reference
or creating a copy of the object but just like with arrays.
This is only one level deep.
It will not clone nested objects or nested arrays.
So if I wanted a copy of one of these existing objects how about cat dog I could do concept cat dog
clone equals dot dot dot cat dog so cat dog itself exists or is created from two other objects to objects
properties have been copied over and then I'm copying that Cat Dog object over into cat dog clone.
Refresh my page.
We have cat dog clone and if we triple equals to cat dog it's false.
They are unique references because we made a copy.
It's not the same reference.
Another very important thing about spread in general this is the only context where you can spread an
object when you're spreading into another object.
If you'd tried to do it inside of an array and do it over here let's see how about canine or dog.
This does not work.
We get an error object is not ignorable.
So in the context of an array it doesn't work in the context of an object so we can spread objects it
does behave differently and the same holds true.
If we were trying to pass this into a math dot Max or something which wouldn't even make sense but we
can't spread the object either.
It's not an ideal.
It only works if we're passing in an array that we're spreading a string or some other ignorable but
an object literal is not one.
Now what do you think happens if I try the opposite.
If I have an object literal and I try to spread an array into it the array of 4 5 6 what happens here.
No error.
Instead we get key value pairs based off of the indices so zero is the key set to 4 1 5 2 to 6.
Probably not that common that you'd need to do that but the same thing holds true with the string.
We can spread a string into an object but just kind of a weird thing to do.
Never really seen it done in the last thing I'll show you here is that we can create array laterals
that also contain objects laterals where we use spread in different contexts.
So let's say I was making an array and I was spreading in the string hello.
For some reason and then I also have an object as one of the possible values in the array and in there
I spread in cat dog.
So I'm combining them inside of an array.
Let's create a variable here constant random equals get rid of that extra s random is an array with
string characters first that we spread and then an object that contains object properties that we spread
so we can nest them.
Now we can create more data structures or nested structures where we spread.
But the context matters the way that spread works.
Instead of this object is different than the way spread works right here because here we're in an array
here we're in an object.
Yes technically it's nested in the array but that doesn't matter it behaves just the same as it did
here or here.
So that is spread.
We saw three different situations where it works.
We always use three dots the first one we saw was passing into a function math.
That man was the example I used where you can spread a bunch of values.
Let's say an array into individual arguments so they're passed as separate arguments.
Then we saw how do you spread in an array literal super useful which helps us copy data from one array
into a new array.
We can combine arrays essentially a nicer way of concatenate ing or we can create a clone of an array
and then in this video we saw how we can use spread in objects laterals to copy properties over from
one object to a new object.
We can create a clone of an object.
We can create a hybrid where we take properties from two objects or three or four and combine them into
one.
We can add new properties and just remember that the order does matter.
If you have conflicting properties like we did with the legs situation so legs here.
If we want likes to remain three should come after all right.
That spread a lovely lovely new feature.